{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\vieww17060\viewh15100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Reviewer #2: How fluid-mechanical erosion creates anisotropic porous media\
Moore et al.\
\
The paper studies erosion within a porous medium comprising an array of (initially) close-packed circular cylinders, across which a Stokesian fluid flows. Erosion of the cylinders occurs, at a rate proportional to local shear stress at cylinder boundaries. The authors study how the erosion leads to the initially isotropic medium developing anisotropic features over time, and they present various measures to quantify the extent and nature of the anisotropy.\
\
I found the paper well written and easy to read. The work is certainly worthy of publication; however several questions and comments came to mind as I read it, and I'd like the authors to consider these in a revised version.\
\
Stylistic comments\
\
- Section 3 (mainly section 3.1 and what comes before it) seems much longer than necessary and contains a lot of technical (sometimes trivial) detail. For example, do we really need to see the components of the deformation tensor (12a-d) in the main text? Do we really need to see the same function differentiated twice (16a-c)? Then a straightforward trapezoidal approximation (17)? Why not omit (16b,c) and combine (16a) and (17) in a single line? Then more approximations in (21-22). To my mind, much of the detail in this section belongs in an appendix. Or SI.\
\
\cf3 Bryan?\
\
\cf2 \
- Equation (2) for the erosion - but this is not in fact the law that is implemented in the paper. So it seems a bit misleading to use it in the model formulation. I can see the authors might prefer a cleaner model presentation, but I think at least a comment saying that in the implementation the law is modified would be appropriate.\
\
\cf3 Good suggestion, done.\cf2 \
\
- Bottom of p11: "statistical analysis of many simulations will show" - this sounds speculative. \'a0I interpreted this on first reading to be the authors' conjecture, rather than something they actually do in the present paper. Why not rephrase to indicate where this is shown (Sec. 5.2)?\
\
\cf3 Good suggestion, done.\cf2 \
\
\
Scientific comments\
\
- I didn't see any mention in the paper that the study is restricted to 2D flows. Of course, it's obvious from the presented study and the methods - but I think it's worth pointing this out explicitly, and it's also worth mentioning specifically in the paper where differences in the modeling and results would arise in a more general 3D study. (For instance, in the modeling, more care would be needed with the shear stress definition in (3) and the associated erosion law.) If the authors are considering real-world situations where the geometry is (quasi)-2D then this is worth mentioning also. But in 3D I would expect the anisotropy progression to be weaker than in the 2D case, due to the flow having an extra dimension to flow into. So I'd like to see some discussion of this point, if only at a speculative level.\
\
\cf3 Good suggestion, done. Put in abstract and in intro.\cf2 \
\cf3 Could discuss 3D.\
\cf2 \
\
- In the introduction, first paragraph, it is stated: "Typical materials are more permeable to flow in the longitudinal (or horizontal) direction than transversely\'85" - what does this even mean? What determines the longitudinal direction in such a typical material? The statement (and the short discussion that follows) seems almost circular to me - the material is more permeable in the direction in which it admits flow? That's almost the definition of permeability.\
\
\
- Section 2, page 2, below equations (1): "To nondimensionalize, we set the fluid viscosity to unity, \\mu=1." This is a lazy way to nondimensionalize. The authors have already gone half-way to nondimensionalizing by this stage, without saying so, by choice of the computational domain. Why not just do it properly and say what the appropriate scalings for all physical quantities are? Then \\mu won't appear in any of the equations (which currently have an uncomfortable hybrid feel - are they meant to be dimensionless, or not?).\
\
\
- Section 3.2, first line: "\'85vorticity, which reduces to shear stress \\tau on solid boundaries" - is that right?\
\
- Section 4.1, diagonal permeability tensor. I understand why the authors take the approach that they do, and most likely it's justified. However, the authors don't ever check the consistency of the diagonal assumption. How would they go about checking this? Could this be commented on?\
\
- Paragraph below eq.(36) - "keep the outer geometry fixed and rotate the inner configuration of bodies" - in the model introduction, the authors described the "buffer zones" [-3,-1], [1,3] in the x-direction, used to allow the flow to adjust to the presence of the bodies (and presumably give more reliable indicators for the anisotropy measures calculated). But the computational domain in the y-direction is only given as [-1,1]. Do the authors extend it for the y-permeability calculation, to get similarly reliable estimates? Or maybe I'm misunderstanding the procedure used.\
\
- Page 9, last paragraph of section 4.3: "\'85 for a fixed configuration of partially-eroded bodies, we replace each body with a circle having the same area and center of mass. Since the configurations resulted from the erosion of initially circular bodies, such a replacement does not lead to any overlap between bodies" - this certainly sounds reasonable, but is it obvious? I assume that, depending on the flow, the COM can change during erosion. Might there be some non-standard examples where the statement doesn't hold? [This is mainly curiosity on my side; for the purposes of publication, if the authors say that overlap never does occur in any simulations then that's fine!]\
\
- Results, Section 5.1, Figure 2: Here the authors compare 1/k11 (from the Darcy law) with F1/(4U) (from the Stokes calculations). Why don't they make a similar comparison for k22, since they also compute the flow in the transverse configuration? \
\
- Results, Section 5.2: What's the rationale for considering trends as the number of bodies M is increased? I'd have preferred to see more simulations (= better statistics) for large values of M, where the Darcy model is more applicable. Is there a specific reason to look at small M-values? Variations with M seems an odd choice to study.\
\
In addition, I found a few typos as I read:\
\
- Abstract, line 1: "the erosion a\'94			\cf3 CORRECTED\cf2 \
- Below eq.(25): "By conservations of mass"	\cf3 CORRECTED\cf2 \
- Page 9, first paragraph: "the shear stressed"	\cf3 CORRECTED\cf2 \
- Page 12, end of section 5.1 "both numerator and denominator both" \cf3 CORRECTED\cf2 \
- Page 12, first paragraph: " natural raise" \cf3 CORRECTED}