{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12420\viewh12800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Soil Anisotropy
\b0 \
Soil Anisotropy references\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'93Soil Anisotropy: Mechanisms and Hydrologic Consequences\'94\
https://blogs.agu.org/terracentral/2013/07/01/soil-anisotropy-mechanisms-and-hydrologic-consequences/\
\
Soil anisotropy is discussed in depth in Bear page 124.\
Phrases: \
\'91The prevailing view is that soil anisotropy develops as a result of sedimentation\'92 \
\'91Soil anisotropy has been attributed to sedimentation, or the tendency of particles to sediment with flat face down\'92\
\
Possible relevant: \'93Measurement of streambed hydraulic conductivity and its anisotropy\'94\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Other groundwater applications
\b0 \ul \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulnone Ming Ye mentioned a colleague that studies soil. In fields where they do military training with heavy tanks, it alters the soil, probably compacts it, and then water does not flow through the same way. The person is here:\
http://www.dri.edu/directory/4856-markus-berli\
A few titles that might be of interest:\
Compaction of agricultural and forest subsoils by tracked heavy construction machinery\
Deformation of pores in viscoplastic soil material\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Proposal notes
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 Mike Siegel suggested that I write a proposal with Bryan Quaife on erosion. He said that NSF likes to see a body of work with progression towards something big. I have several papers on erosion and Bryan has lots of work on boundary integrals.\
\
Dan Rothman had really good advice about applying to the DOE, possibly an early career grant. He said reactive intrusion flows is the DOE\'92s bread and butter. He has been supported by them and knows others who have been supported. He said the competition for early career grant is not that fierce, so I should have a good chance. The manager for the program Dan knows about is Dr. Jim Rustad and the program is geosciences.\
\
He also mentioned a guy at U Florida, Tony Ladd, who does computational fluids and has been supported by them.}