{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red69\green69\blue69;}
\vieww14080\viewh13840\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 From: Bryan Quaife <bquaife@fsu.edu>\
Subject: Fwd: JCOMP-D-18-00606\
Date: June 29, 2018 at 1:26:38 PM EDT\
To: Nick Moore <mnmoore2@fsu.edu>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Awesome news. Clear 15 minutes to do these changes.\
\
Best\
Bryan\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sent from my T-Mobile 4G LTE Device\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
-------- Original message --------\
From: Journal of Computational Physics <eesserver@eesmail.elsevier.com> \
Date: 6/29/18 5:31 PM (GMT+01:00) \
To: bquaife@fsu.edu \
Subject: JCOMP-D-18-00606 \
\
Re: JCOMP-D-18-00606\
\
Dear Dr. Quaife,\
\
Based on the received referee report, which is appended below, I have come to a decision on your manuscript entitled "A boundary-integral framework to simulate viscous erosion of a porous medium".\
\
In view of the referee report, I have come to the conclusion that after minor revisions your paper can be reconsidered for publication in the Journal of Computational Physics. Therefore, I am looking forward to receiving the revised version (mandatory) of the paper together with a reply to the reports (mandatory) and a summary of the revisions made (mandatory). \
\
The changes you will have made must be described in a separate file labeled "Response to Reviewers" that carefully addresses, point-by-point, the issues raised in the comments appended below. You should also include a suitable rebuttal to any specific request for change that you have not made. Mention the page, paragraph, and line number of any revisions that are made. It is mandatory to indicate in the revised manuscript the changes you have made by highlighting the text in different colors for different reviewers. Failure to address any of these 3 points (changes made, changes not made, highlight of change) without justification may lead the associate editor in charge of your submission to send the revised submission back to you.\
\
\
While submitting the revised manuscript, please double check the author names provided in the submission so that authorship related changes are made in the revision stage. If your manuscript is accepted, any authorship change will involve approval from co-authors and respective editor handling the submission and this may cause a significant delay in publishing your manuscript.\
\
The revised version of your submission is due by Sep 27, 2018.\
\
If the revised version is submitted within the due date, the manuscript will retain the original submission date. After due date, your paper might be treated as a new submission and may be sent to new reviewers.\
\
\
Please note that this journal offers a new, free service called AudioSlides: brief, webcast-style presentations that are shown next to published articles on ScienceDirect (see also https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__www.elsevier.com_audioslides&d=DwICaQ&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=0rSSOX2Qu600Hs6_sm4mlA&m=X24fWPd6exzzAK1Ai6ZBFTjI_Wh8UqUB0cGHpT3G5JQ&s=XFm3BQ1r6q0LZvnowqzm1nY4XKSdxY-jNFeUljZ2DqE&e=). If your paper is accepted for publication, you will automatically receive an invitation to create an AudioSlides presentation.\
\
NOTE: Upon submitting your revised manuscript, please upload the source files for your article. For additional details regarding acceptable file formats, please refer to the Guide for Authors at: https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__www.elsevier.com_journals_journal-2Dof-2Dcomputational-2Dphysics_0021-2D9991_guide-2Dfor-2Dauthors&d=DwICaQ&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=0rSSOX2Qu600Hs6_sm4mlA&m=X24fWPd6exzzAK1Ai6ZBFTjI_Wh8UqUB0cGHpT3G5JQ&s=4o4wKLZtl99ndTEaJXOKirsTVB2-KnuoqoqBkuModcE&e=\
PLEASE NOTE: Journal Of Computational Physics would like to enrich online articles by displaying interactive figures that help the reader to visualize and explore your research results. For this purpose, we would like to invite you to upload figures in the MATLAB .FIG file format as supplementary material to our online submission system. Elsevier will generate interactive figures from these files and include them with the online article on SciVerse ScienceDirect. If you wish, you can submit .FIG files along with your revised submission.\
Data in Brief (optional) \
\
We invite you to convert your supplementary data (or a part of it) into a Data in Brief article. Data in Brief articles are descriptions of the data and associated metadata which are normally buried in supplementary material. They are actively reviewed, curated, formatted, indexed, given a DOI and freely available to all upon publication. Data in Brief should be uploaded with your revised manuscript directly to Journal Of Computational Physics. If your Journal Of Computational Physics research article is accepted, your Data in Brief article will automatically be transferred over to our new, fully Open Access journal, Data in Brief, where it will be editorially reviewed and published as a separate data article upon acceptance. The Open Access fee for Data in Brief is $500. \
\
Please just fill in the template found here: https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__www.elsevier.com_-5F-5Fdata_assets_word-5Fdoc_0004_215779_Datainbrief-5Ftemplate.docx&d=DwICaQ&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=0rSSOX2Qu600Hs6_sm4mlA&m=X24fWPd6exzzAK1Ai6ZBFTjI_Wh8UqUB0cGHpT3G5JQ&s=w07TPn-Bhg5apD7kRVX6_Q8LfL4ZZ_Np2xteF8rde9o&e=. Then, place all Data in Brief files (whichever supplementary files you would like to include as well as your completed Data in Brief template) into a .zip file and upload this as a Data in Brief item alongside your Journal Of Computational Physics revised manuscript. Note that only this Data in Brief item will be transferred over to Data in Brief, so ensure all of your relevant Data in Brief documents are zipped into a single file. Also, make sure you change references to supplementary material in your Journal Of Computational Physics manuscript to reference the Data in Brief article where appropriate.\
\
Questions? Please send your inquiries to dib@elsevier.com. Example Data in Brief can be found here: https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__www.sciencedirect.com_science_journal_23523409&d=DwICaQ&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=0rSSOX2Qu600Hs6_sm4mlA&m=X24fWPd6exzzAK1Ai6ZBFTjI_Wh8UqUB0cGHpT3G5JQ&s=XiSxdWtNDu3OlXEr73yY3Y3JC3HzVlZAI50vBS0EUFQ&e= \
\
Include interactive data visualizations in your publication and let your readers interact and engage more closely with your research. Follow the instructions here: https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__www.elsevier.com_authors_author-2Dservices_data-2Dvisualization&d=DwICaQ&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=0rSSOX2Qu600Hs6_sm4mlA&m=X24fWPd6exzzAK1Ai6ZBFTjI_Wh8UqUB0cGHpT3G5JQ&s=27Vu-ChpsKpWCAxNZaA-AAGQ9a5wFlDVPVqaiTbULVU&e= to find out about available data visualization options and how to include them with your article.\
\
With best regards,\
\
Eric F Darve, PhD\
Associate Editor\
Journal Of Computational Physics\
\
\
\
The reviewers' comments are as follows:\
\
************************************************************\
\
Reviewer #1: In this manuscript, the authors present a comprehensive approach for the simulation of viscous erosion in porous media based on an integral equation formulation. There are several challenges that arise in the numerically stable simulation of viscous erosion---development of corners (even with smooth background velocities and initial geometries) which results in singularities in the solutions; tracking evolving geometries over long time horizons which results in distortion of the underlying discretization; the non-smoothness of the boundary update which results in a stiff set of differential equations for evolving the geometry; and finally the kernel for computing the fluid stresses (required for evolving the geometry at each time step) is hypersingular. While the authors have used existing tools to tackle each of these individual issues, this is a first complete numerical solver\'a0 for the study of viscous erosion which addresses all of these issues.\
\
Moreover, the authors have done extensive studies to quantify various approximation errors (both in smoothing the normal component of the boundary velocity at each time step and the curvature penalization used to avoid formation of corner singularities) through a detailed analysis for a single body eroding in Stokes flow. In particular, they separately quantify the rate of erosion and the limiting shape (the opening angle formed at the corners). The ability to test these errors separately, is to the best of my knowledge is new work, and provides a good validation example for future numerical solvers. Using these tests, the authors demonstrate second-order convergence (up to approximation errors in for smoothing the stress tensor, and curvature penalization) for their overall numerical solver. For all of these reasons, I recommend publication of this manuscript with the following minor revisions.\
\
1) In section 3.1, formula 29 is missing a $\\Delta s_\{j\}$\
2) In section 4.1, the symbols $v$ and $u$ haven't been defined previously\
\
\
\
Reviewer #3: In this paper, the authors describe a numerical method to simulate the erosion of bodies in a fluid flow. The ultimate goal is to model how a porous medium evolve. The authors consider plane Stokes flow. The flow field is solved using the boundary element method and the body shape evolution using a set of ODEs solved with an exponential integrator combined with a second-order Runge-Kutta method. The overall method has spectral accuracy and is second order in time. The validity of the method is convincingly demonstrated using simplification afforded by assuming the body to be slender. \
Overall, the paper is very well written and is very interesting. It is in my opinion a very strong contribution to the Journal of Computational Physics. I have no reservation in recommending this paper for publication as is. If anything, I would only make the following suggestions:\
- The time scale of erosion totally disappears from the analysis. How would this time scale be set in practise? \
- On page 23: the scaling of Fd with 4*pi*U is not dimensionless. It seems to me like the drag coefficient might be a better quantity to base the discussion on.\
- The aft and rear stagnation points both recede eventhough they are subject to zero shear. Is it just a consequence of the regularization? \
That aside, I can only congratulate the authors for a great paper. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
NOTE: Additional comments by the reviewers may be available in Elsevier Editorial System (EES). You can find these comments in EES by clicking on "view review attachments". Please contact jcp@elsevier.com if you have any problems opening the reviewer comments in EES.\
************************************************************\
}